"A unified approach to causal inference with minimal assumptions"

Introduction:
A new and exciting statistics literature has emerged in recent years,
building on advances in nonparametric, non-model-based inference, and
focused around diverse generalizations of different types of matching
estimators.  The potential of this literature is enormous, as it offers
the wherewithall for researchers to make much more reliable causal
inferences than has been the case in most of the social sciences.  These
methods make it possible to vastly reduce the necessary functional form
and other assumptions, and to verify empirically rather than assume 
unstated but critical modeling assumptions.

Unfortunately, this literature has grown into a cacaphony of related but
conflicting techniques, practices, conventions, and rules of thumb.
Valid methods of computing standard errors and confidence intervals are
even more complicated, often not used, and sometimes not available.
Advice and guidelines are lacking or conflicting.

In this paper, we attempt to unify this diverse literature for
researchers to make the most productive use of these methods.  Our
simple unifying idea is to think of these new nonparametric techniques
as ways of making the parametric techniques more commonly known and
used in the social sciences (regression, logit, etc.) work better.
This framework thus enables us to add a simple pre-processing step and
let social scientists use whatever models they are already accustomed
to using, rather than requiring them to substitute the methods they
know for one of a set of entirely new and unfamilar methods.  Our
approach therefore has obvious pedagogical and expository advantages,
but the approach also turns out to be useful in bringing intellectual
order and cohesion to this conflicting literature and to suggest
relatively straightforward advice for empirical researchers seeking to
make causal inferences.  When thought of in the way we propose, the
approach also immediately suggests a simple, standardized, and valid
approach to computing standard errors and confidence intervals for any
of the new techniques.

In this paper, we describe our unifying approach and all that which leads
from it.  We also describe software we have prepared and are making
available as a companion to this paper.  The software is easy to use and
implements all the ideas discussed herein.

Table of Contents:

 1 Introduction (see above)
 
 2 Causal Inference and Potential Outcomes 
 2.1 Potential outcomes framework for both experiments and observational data 
 2.2 Unbiasedness of causal estimates in randomized experiments
 2.3 Idea of replicating randomized experiments with observational data (think of
	hypothetical underlying randomized experiment)
 2.4 Inference
 2.4.1 Model Adjustments: The Role of Functional Form Assumptions 
 2.4.2 Matching as way to reduce assumptions/extrapolation
 2.4.3 Benefits to combining matching and modeling

 3 Overview of Matching, particularly propensity scores
 3.1 Main idea: find matches that look as similar as possible
 3.2 Exact matching
 3.3 Propensity scores as a way to reduce dimensionality
 
 4 Details of matching procedures (matchit)
 4.1 Estimating Propensity Scores 
 4.1.1 Logistic Regression 
 4.1.2 Others: CART?, GAM, probit
 4.2 Matching Parameters 
 4.2.1 Exact Restrictions 
 4.2.2 Optimal vs. nearest neighbor matching
 4.2.3 Ratios and Replacement
 4.2.4 Specification Algorithm (Dan, what did you mean here?)
 4.2.5 Discarding 
 4.2.6 Caliper and Mahalanobis Matching
 4.2.7 Subclassification
 4.3 Diagnostics 
 4.3.1 Checking for balance 
 4.3.2 Bias statistics 
 4.3.3 Means tests vs. bias statistics 
 4.3.4 Diagnostics as way to refine specification

 5 Analysis 
 5.1 Effect on treated, overall effect 
 5.2 "Naive" estimates
 5.2.1 Neyman's estimates of causal effect, variance
 5.3 Use modeling to repeatedly impute missing potential outcomes
 5.3.1 Can specify standard models in treated and control groups
 5.3.2 Logistic regression, OLS, etc. (zelig)
 5.3.3 Contrast with standard OLS (parallel linear regressions)
  
 6 Applications 
 6.1 "Simple" example (Dehejia and Wahba?)
 6.2 Cross-sectional 
 6.3 Panel Data
 
 7 Remaining Open Issues 
 7.1 Multi-treatment regimes 
 7.2 Panel Data 
 
 8 Conclusion 
 




