# To do list for Matchit

- Max bias reduction

- Factor vars

- full matching

- optimal matching

- A*I without using y?

-------------------------
EDITS

So how about changing this para:

If, instead, fewer controls are available than those treated, then
matching with replacement --- allowing each control unit to be matched
to more than one treated unit --- is a good option.  Alternatively,
consider switching the definition of treatment and control groups
(although, of course, if using ATT, this will change the substantive
definition of the causal effect).

to:

If, instead, fewer controls are available than those treated, then
consider switching the definition of treatment and control groups
(although, of course, if using ATT, this will change the substantive
definition of the causal effect).  Alternatively, one might consider
matching with replacement --- allowing each control unit to be matched to
more than one treated unit.  The advice for diagnostics and analyses for
matching with replacement, however, are not so straightforward and so
caution is well-advised to the applied researcher.

[I realize that advice which change the QoI isn't great, but clearly if
there are so few comparable C units, there are going to be serious
limitations on what we can learn from the data about more than some smaller
subpopulation.]

And:

(The one exception to our procedure
occurs when matching with replacement, where we would then run the
parametric procedure with each unit weighted by the number of times it
was chosen as a match.)

to:

(The one exception to our procedure
occurs when matching with replacement, for which there few settled results
on how to specify a parametric model.  One option is to simply run the
parametric procedure with each unit weighted by the number of times it
was chosen as a match.)



CURSE OF DIM'Y: 

On the curse, we should probably add the point more explicitly in the paper
that it's about how to account for covariates, not how many covariates to
include.  Obviously, to make ignorability believable and avoid omitted
variable bias, more covariates are always better; and that poses the
challenge of how to account for these covariates.  I think the structural
issue is that we talk about ignorability in the third para of section 3.2,
but then we don't explicitly say that more data is better to make this
believable, nor do we connect this to our discussion of the curse in section
4.2. Since these aren't explicitly connected by a sentence or so in either
3.2 or 4.2, some researchers might on the margin decide to "avoid" these
problems by controlling for fewer covariates.


- Andrew's INTERACTIONS point (perhaps a footnote about how this presents the same specification issues)

